Conditional GETs in App Engine
Published on December 01, 2010.
I’m currently working on an app in Google App Engine that polls feeds periodically and then does stuff with them.
I suppose I could use that pubsubhubbub thingy but I have a feeling that most feeds aren’t using this yet.
Anyway, I did a quick naive implementation of polling about every hour or so.
Apparently the feed parser I’m using is pretty inefficient because it’s eating up a lot of resources (relatively speaking) on App Engine.
I remembered that the http protocol is pretty smart, and there’s a way to figure out if stuff has changed since the last time you grabbed it.
Google’s urlfetch doesn’t seem to support conditional GETs (someone tell me if I am wrong).
I looked around and found a few tutorials on how to accomplish this in Python using urllib2.
The tutorials weren’t exactly what I wanted, so I had to change a few things here or there.
Here’s a snippet of code that I’m using:
This handles my use case, which is doing work if the feed is new, and ignoring it if it hasn’t been modified.
I could probably wrap this into a function that returned false if it the file hadn’t changed, and the content if it was new… Probably will do that next.